[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome, in this video,
we're gonna have a problem and a solution.
What is the problem, I hear you ask?
Well, when our attackers are instantiated,
when they're spawning,
you can see they're just being
plopped down in our hierarchy here.
And the hierarchy gets pretty full
when we get more stuff in it.
Generally, we've been not
really worrying about where
new game objects are being instantiated.
We're just saying put them wherever, but
now we're gonna start to tidy that up for
two reasons.
One is because we need to know exactly
where the attackers are spawning, so
that we can say whether
the defender should shoot or not.
So we need to be saying,
is there an attacker in my lane?
And if there is, then I should shoot.
So what I want you to do,
as a first challenge, is to
remember to figure out where in our code
do we instantiate each new attacker.
So we've done this in the past,
should be easy enough to find.
But just a good chance for
you to go digging through your scripts and
find aha, this is is the exact moment
that we instantiate a new attacker.
So take on that challenge and
I'll see you back here in a moment.
Right, so we'll do this logically.
We'll have a look at it and we'll say,
when we are spawning attackers,
what is the thing that spawns attackers?
Well, I believe it's my spawners
that are spawning attackers.
Double-click on there.
And so, what I'll do is go find
my AttackerSpawner script,
open that up, have a look in here.
Is there anything that's instantiating?
There we go, SpawnAttacker Instantiate.
And first, we've gotta keep track of
what's going on with this object that
we're instantiating.
We want to instantiate it as something,
we'll instantiate it as an attacker.
So make myself a new line here.
I'll say, of type Attacker,
and we'll call this,
what should we call it, newAttacker and
that will equal this Instantiate.
It's gonna be pretty long.
We'll leave it long for a moment,
then we'll figure out a way to
format it a little bit better.
But instantiate, take a prefab transform
position, transform.rotation as what?
What do we need to instantiate this as,
as an Attacker.
Okay, and because this is super duper
long, let's go and instantiate.
I'll make a new line for attackerPrefab,
position transform.rotation as Attacker.
Okay, you can organize
this however you want.
We've talked about this
a lot with your whitespace.
But this for me makes sense so
that it fits on my screen.
Okay, so then we're instantiating.
Let's just go and test that.
It's always good to test these things.
I've had some people in the Q and A tell
me, Rick, sometimes, or specifically
say on this instance Rick didn't go and
test the change of the code he made.
Are we teaching new
programmers bad habits?
Yes, we are, we should always go and
test what we've done.
That's instantiated, that's instantiated.
Okay, it's still being chucked
into the hierarchy any old place.
That's what we're gonna go and
figure out now.
So in this case,
because we know who the parent is,
it's whatever the game object is, where
the AttackerSpawner script is located.
For us,
that's gonna be a spawner in our world.
So then we can say in here,
newAttacker.transform.parent = transform.
Okay, so it's a way of saying the parent
of this new thing we've just created,
the new attacker.
The parent is going to be transformed,
which is saying me,
which is saying the transform up here.
You can see if I click on the spawner,
there is the transform.
That's a way of me having my identity.
It's the who I am, where I am, what I am,
so to speak, so it's the transform.
So save that up, back over into Unity.
What we're looking for here is to see
where our lizards are instantiating.
And you can see, there we go, within here,
we've got all these
lizards starting to spawn.
I'll just pause here so we can see it.
So underneath Spawner,
we can see we've got our new
attacker objects being spawned.
And this is gonna be very useful
when we get there and say, okay,
should this cactus shoot, yes or no?
It's in lane three,
we'll have a look at lane three,
currently there's no children for
lane three, so don't shoot.
But if the cactus was in lane one,
down the bottom here,
lane one currently has two children, so
if greater than zero children, then shoot.
And as we go through our project,
we'll continue to tidy up where things
are instantiated in our hierarchy, but for
now, just the attackers we've tidied up.
So great stuff, well done.
I will see you in the next video.